Nietzsche intended to present the total output of his teaching in a coherent work. The titles of the proposed work and the aspects of its arrangement varied, but the unified idea of presenting its philosophy in a concise manner remained. There should be no new basic ideas in the work, no important basic teaching should be changed; Rather, the work should have proved that his line of thought remained the same from the first to the last work. All teachings of the individual periods of development that appear so different are only variations on the same theme; a basic melody always sounds through to the attentive listener. Hearing them out is not easy. For his tendency to emphasize the thoughts that are in the foreground, the prevailing emotion almost violently, to lend him the full force of his impressive, overwhelming language, often allows the secondary tones to be heard more clearly than the fundamental tone. Hence few thinkers need to be read as carefully as Nietzsche, who seems to come across so easily.
Full, easy clarity could therefore only have been brought about by a work that emphasized the main ideas alone. That is why it is such a sad thought that his illness prevented the completion of this very work, on which he had been constantly working since 1882, for which he had continuously made individual notes and drafted dispositions. He took essential parts from this circle of ideas and combined them into his last works, especially the Antichrist, which was written in the last months before his illness and is written in an agitated tone, which is completely different from the style of the writings.
What then remained of the complete work was an endless wealth of individual notes that can be found in a large number of notebooks. The previous editions set themselves the task of not letting any of this wealth of ideas get lost and arranged everything that was available according to the points of view specified by Nietzsche himself. Through numerous samples, I was able to convince myself of the great care and faithful conscientiousness with which Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche and Peter Gast solved the arduous task of deciphering the difficult-to-read manuscripts and bringing the aphorisms under the given points of view. In the notebooks there were many things that occurred to the thinker while he was writing them down or by chance at the same time, without them being immediately necessary for the new whole. It is not easy to let go of these often tempting thoughts; it was also right for a first edition not to withhold it from the reader. However, they often make it difficult to find one's way around the leading ideas, and their large number also give the work an excessive scope.
So it seemed appropriate to try to turn the manuscripts into what Nietzsche himself had in mind: a presentation of his basic doctrine; at the same time, however,
to give the newly arranged work a form that allows an easy overview and thus makes it easier to penetrate the main lines of the content by changing the external form.
In agreement with Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche, I was able to highlight what explains the basic idea of the "will to power". Then it was a matter of distributing what
was available in such a way that a guide through Nietzsche's basic teachings came about. There, of course, terms are missing as essential, which otherwise often seem to
be in the foreground, such as the "superman"; others, such as "eternal return," occur only occasionally. In these cases, however, there is no change of doctrine; Rather,
 the systematic structure allows what was emphasized in earlier passages to appear here only as a sub-part of a larger whole. Thus the superman is lost in the overall conception
  of the new, great man in general, and the eternal return of all things, which once could have seemed to count among the main teachings, becomes one of the various means of cultivating
  the great man, albeit one the decisive one. Precisely in this balance of values lies the great importance that the work itself has as an unfinished one. In Zarathustra Nietzsche had prophetically called for followers of his teachings; no wonder that a work of this nature, designed to make an impression, also made it widely known. The prophet wants to have an effect, to influence - this includes affect that sweeps away, strong emphasis on what the prophet wants to put in the foreground. The "will to power" wants to teach, explain, explain from history and nature, probably even prove. Here the organizing intellect is at work, building up systematically, not to call for action, to proclaim holy war for a new doctrine, but to show from which roots one's own doctrine has grown and how it affects the whole
  These great creative people - of theory or practice - grasp the wheel of existence with a mighty hand; they turn its spokes forward a little by carrying the feeling that they have to gain new powers for the world, that they cannot help but shape the world by shaping themselves. They do not ask about the value of life, they feel the terrible grounds on which it rests, they know its dreadfulness and its depths - and from this gain insight and strength to reshape it, to test their will to power on it, even how divine powers to destroy, to annihilate, to break up the old, to become criminals against the law in order to create something new and greater. They say "yes" to total existence and therefore cannot say "no" to any part: for necessity intertwines all things inseparably, that one must affirm all being when one affirms the smallest part. Her infinitely flowing power delights in shaping this world, man's only task, his artistic profession. They don't know a world that is, only one that is becoming, one that should be, on which people carve out their destiny and the destiny of the world. Their strength grows from the resistance they offer them; their will to power can never get enough of giving this world ever new forms, letting the fullness, the richness of their mental and will power flow over into the world. They see this world as their work and wish for only one thing: to continue to shape it into infinity, again and again, infinitely often. They affirm this existence and wish it to return as it is, as it becomes through them and their will to power: in the same form infinitely often in an eternal recurrence. This longing, which stems from their will to power, gives them strength – and this new strength gives them new longing. But the weak perish at the thought that this life may return infinitely often - and here, as everywhere, people necessarily separate into the strong and the weak in their belief, their knowledge, their art, their actions and desires, because this Difference rests on the ultimate ground of being: the degree of will to power.
Criticism of the term "cause". – We have absolutely no experience of a cause; psychologically calculated, the whole term comes to us from the subjective conviction that we are the cause, namely that the arm moves.... But that is a mistake. We, the perpetrators, differ from doing, and we make use of this pattern everywhere - we look for a perpetrator for every event. What have we done? We have misunderstood as cause a feeling of strength, tension, resistance, a muscular sensation that is already the beginning of action, or the will to do so-and-so because action follows as cause.

"Cause" does not appear at all: in some cases where it seemed given to us and where we projected it out of ourselves to understand what was happening, self-deception is proven. Our "understanding of an event" consisted in inventing a subject who became responsible for what happened and how it happened. We have summarized our feeling of will, our feeling of "freedom", our feeling of responsibility and our intention to act in the term "cause": causa efficiens and causa finalis are one in the basic conception.

We thought that an effect was explained when a state was shown in which it already inheres. In fact, we invent all causes according to the schema of the effect: the latter is known to us.... Conversely, we are unable to predict what "effects" anything. The thing, the subject, the will, the intention - all inherent in the conception "cause". We look for things to explain why something has changed. Even the atom is such an added “thing” and “original subject”....

We finally understand that things - and consequently also atoms - have no effect: because they are not there at all - that the concept of causality is completely useless. – A necessary sequence of states does not result in their causal relationship (– that would mean making their effective capacity jump from one to two, to three, to four, to five). There are neither causes nor effects. Linguistically we don't know how to get away from it. But it doesn't matter. If I think of the muscle separately from its "effects", then I have negated it....

In summary: an event is neither caused nor effectuating. Causa is a capacity to work, invented in addition to what is happening....

The interpretation of causality is an illusion.... A "thing" is the sum of its effects, synthetically bound by a concept, an image. In fact, science has emptied the concept of causality of its content and left it as a parable formula in which it is basically irrelevant
Finally, the “thing in itself” falls, because that is basically the conception of a “subject in itself”. But we understood that the subject is fictitious. The opposition "thing in itself" and "appearance" is untenable; but with that, the term “appearance” also falls away.

c) If we give up the acting subject, so also the object that is acted on. Duration, equality with oneself, being inherent neither in what is called subject nor in what is called object: they are complexes of events, seemingly permanent in relation to other complexes - thus, for example, through a difference in the tempo of the What is happening (rest – movement, firm – loose: all opposites that do not exist in themselves and with which in fact only degree differences are expressed, which appear to be opposites to a certain extent. There are no opposites: only in terms of logic we have the concept of opposites - and from there wrongly transferred to things).

d) If we give up the concept of "subject" and "object", then also the concept of "substance" - and consequently also its various modifications, for example, "matter", "spirit" and other hypothetical beings, "eternity and immutability of substance” etc. We are rid of materiality.

Morally speaking, the world is wrong. But insofar as morality itself is a piece of this world, morality is false.

The will to truth is a fixing, a making true, permanent, making that false character out of sight, a reinterpretation of it into being. "Truth" is thus not something there to be found, something to be discovered - but something to be created and which gives the name to a process, still more to an overwhelming will, which in itself has no end : Putting truth into it, as a process in infinitum, an active determination, - not becoming conscious of something that would be fixed and determined in itself. It is a word for the "will to power".

Life is based on the premise of a belief in the permanent and regular recurrence; the more powerful life is, the broader must be the world that can be guessed at and made to be as it were. Logization, rationalization, systematization as tools of life.

Man projects his drive towards truth, his "goal" in a certain sense outside of himself as an existing world, as a metaphysical world, as a "thing-in-itself", as a pre-existing world. His need as a creator already fictionalizes and anticipates the world he is working on; this anticipation (this "belief" in the truth) is its support.

Everything that happens, every movement, everything becoming as a determination of degree and power ratios, as a struggle....

As soon as we imagine someone responsible for making us so and so
The "good of the individual" is as imaginary as the "good of the species": the former is not sacrificed to the latter, species is, viewed from afar, as fluid as the individual. "Preservation of the genus" is only a consequence of the growth of the genus, i.e. the overcoming of the genus on the way to a stronger species.


Theses. – That the apparent “expediency” (“expediency infinitely superior to all human art”) is merely the consequence of that will to power that plays out in everything that happens – : that growing stronger brings with it orders that look similar to a draft of expediency – : that the Apparent ends are not intended, but, as soon as superior power is attained over a lesser power, and the latter works as a function of the greater, an order of rank, the organization must give the appearance of an order of means and ends.

Against the apparent "necessity":

– this only an expression for the fact that a force is not also something else.

Against the apparent "expediency":

– the latter only an expression for an order of power spheres and their interaction.


The seductions emanating from this concept are of three kinds:

a) an unknown world: – we are adventurers, curious, – the known seems to make us tired (– the danger of the term lies in insinuating “this” world as known to us....);

b) another world where it is different: - something in us calculates, our quiet submission, our silence lose their value in the process - perhaps everything will be fine, we did not hope in vain.... The world where it different where we ourselves – who knows? – are different....

c) a true world: – this is the most wondrous trick and attack made upon us; so much is encrusted on the word “true”, involuntarily we also make it a gift to the “true world”: the true world must also be a truthful one, one that doesn’t deceive us, doesn’t make fools of us: believing in it is almost have to believe (– out of decency, as happens among trustworthy beings –).
a
The term "the unknown world" insinuates to us this world as "known" (as boring -);
c) with our sympathy and respect - as if this world did not deserve it, as unfair, as not honest towards us....

In summary: we have revolted in a threefold way: we have made an x to criticize the "known world".

I see with astonishment that science today has resigned itself to being dependent on the apparent world: a true world - whatever it may be - we certainly have no organ of knowledge for it.

At this point we may now ask: with which organ of knowledge does one also start with this contrast?....

The fact that a world that is accessible to our organs is also understood as dependent on these organs, that we understand a world as subjectively conditioned, does not mean that an objective world is possible at all. Who forces us to think that subjectivity is real, essential?

The "in itself" is even a nonsensical conception: a "property in itself" is nonsense: we always have the concept "being", "thing" only as a relational concept....

The bad thing is that with the old opposition "apparent" and "true" the correlative value judgment has propagated: "low in value" and "absolutely valuable".

The apparent world does not count as a "valuable" world for us; the bill is supposed to be an authority against the supreme value. Only a “true” world can be valuable in itself....

prejudice of prejudice! Firstly, it would be possible in itself that the true nature of things would be so detrimental to the conditions of life, would be contrary to it, that appearances would be necessary in order to be able to live.... This is the case in so many situations: for example in marriage.

Our empirical world would be conditioned by the instincts of self-preservation even in its cognitive limits: we considered as true, as good, as valuable what serves the preservation of the species....

a) We have no categories according to which we may separate a true and an apparent world. (There could just be an apparent world, but not just our apparent world....)

b) Assuming the true world, it could still be of lower value for us: precisely the quantum of illusion would like to be of a higher rank in its preservation value for us. (Unless the semblance in itself justified a condemnation?)

c) That there is a correlation between the degrees of values and the degrees of reality
anxious to learn how wise, or how ignorant, their
neighbors might prove to be.
‘I will send my faithful old minister to the weavers,’
said the Emperor at last, after some deliberation, ‘he will
be best able to see how the cloth looks; for he is a man of
sense, and no one can be more suitable for his office than
be is.’
So the faithful old minister went into the hall, where
the knaves were working with all their might, at their
empty looms. ‘What can be the meaning of this?’ thought
the old man, opening his eyes very wide. ‘I cannot
discover the least bit of thread on the looms.’ However,
he did not express his thoughts aloud.
The impostors requested him very courteously to be so
good as to come nearer their looms; and then asked him
whether the design pleased him, and whether the colors
were not very beautiful; at the same time pointing to the
empty frames. The poor old minister looked and looked,
he could not discover anything on the looms, for a very
good reason, viz: there was nothing there. ‘What!’ thought
he again. ‘Is it possible that I am a simpleton? I have never
thought so myself; and no one must know it now if I am
so. Can it be, that I am unfit for my office? No, that must
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
5 of 260
not be said either. I will never confess that I could not see
the stuff.’
‘Well, Sir Minister!’ said one of the knaves, still
pretending to work. ‘You do not say whether the stuff
pleases you.’
‘Oh, it is excellent!’ replied the old minister, looking at
the loom through his spectacles. ‘This pattern, and the
colors, yes, I will tell the Emperor without delay, how
very beautiful I think them.’
‘We shall be much obliged to you,’ said the impostors,
and then they named the different colors and described the
pattern of the pretended stuff. The old minister listened
attentively to their words, in order that he might repeat
them to the Emperor; and then the knaves asked for more
silk and gold, saying that it was necessary to complete
what they had begun. However, they put all that was
given them into their knapsacks; and continued to work
with as much apparent diligence as before at their empty
looms.
The Emperor now sent another officer of his court to
see how the men were getting on, and to ascertain
whether the cloth would soon be ready. It was just the
same with this gentleman as with the minister; he surveyed
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
6 of 260
the looms on all sides, but could see nothing at all but the
empty frames.
‘Does not the stuff appear as beautiful to you, as it did
to my lord the minister?’ asked the impostors of the
Emperor’s second ambassador; at the same time making
the same gestures as before, and talking of the design and
colors which were not there.
‘I certainly am not stupid!’ thought the messenger. ‘It
must be, that I am not fit for my good, profitable office!
That is very odd; however, no one shall know anything
about it.’ And accordingly he praised the stuff he could
not see, and declared that he was delighted with both
colors and patterns. ‘Indeed, please your Imperial Majesty,’
said he to his sovereign when he returned, ‘the cloth
which the weavers are preparing is extraordinarily
magnificent.’
The whole city was talking of the splendid cloth which
the Emperor had ordered to be woven at his own
expense.
And now the Emperor himself wished to see the costly
manufacture, while it was still in the loom. Accompanied
by a select number of officers of the court, among whom
were the two honest men who had already admired the
cloth, he went to the crafty impostors, who, as soon as
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
7 of 260
they were aware of the Emperor’s approach, went on
working more diligently than ever; although they still did
not pass a single thread through the looms.
‘Is not the work absolutely magnificent?’ said the two
officers of the crown, already mentioned. ‘If your Majesty
will only be pleased to look at it! What a splendid design!
What glorious colors!’ and at the same time they pointed
to the empty frames; for they imagined that everyone else
could see this exquisite piece of workmanship.
‘How is this?’ said the Emperor to himself. ‘I can see
nothing! This is indeed a terrible affair! Am I a simpleton,
or am I unfit to be an Emperor? That would be the worst
thing that could happen—Oh! the cloth is charming,’ said
he, aloud. ‘It has my complete approbation.’ And he
smiled most graciously, and looked closely at the empty
looms; for on no account would he say that he could not
see what two of the officers of his court had praised so
much. All his retinue now strained their eyes, hoping to
discover something on the looms, but they could see no
more than the others; nevertheless, they all exclaimed,
‘Oh, how beautiful!’ and advised his majesty to have some
new clothes made from this splendid material, for the
approaching procession. ‘Magnificent! Charming!
Excellent!’ resounded on all sides; and everyone was
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
8 of 260
uncommonly gay. The Emperor shared in the general
satisfaction; and presented the impostors with the riband of
an order of knighthood, to be worn in their button-holes,
and the title of ‘Gentlemen Weavers.’
The rogues sat up the whole of the night before the
day on which the procession was to take place, and had
sixteen lights burning, so that everyone might see how
anxious they were to finish the Emperor’s new suit. They
pretended to roll the cloth off the looms; cut the air with
their scissors; and sewed with needles without any thread
in them. ‘See!’ cried they, at last. ‘The Emperor’s new
clothes are ready!’
And now the Emperor, with all the grandees of his
court, came to the weavers; and the rogues raised their
arms, as if in the act of holding something up, saying,
‘Here are your Majesty’s trousers! Here is the scarf! Here is
the mantle! The whole suit is as light as a cobweb; one
might fancy one has nothing at all on, when dressed in it;
that, however, is the great virtue of this delicate cloth.’
‘Yes indeed!’ said all the courtiers, although not one of
them could see anything of this exquisite manufacture.
‘If your Imperial Majesty will be graciously pleased to
take off your clothes, we will fit on the new suit, in front
of the looking glass.’
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
9 of 260
The Emperor was accordingly undressed, and the
rogues pretended to array him in his new suit; the
Emperor turning round, from side to side, before the
looking glass.
‘How splendid his Majesty looks in his new clothes,
and how well they fit!’ everyone cried out. ‘What a
design! What colors! These are indeed royal robes!’
‘The canopy which is to be borne over your Majesty,
in the procession, is waiting,’ announced the chief master
of the ceremonies.
‘I am quite ready,’ answered the Emperor. ‘Do my new
clothes fit well?’ asked he, turning himself round again
before the looking glass, in order that he might appear to
be examining his handsome suit.
The lords of the bedchamber, who were to carry his
Majesty’s train felt about on the ground, as if they were
lifting up the ends of the mantle; and pretended to be
carrying something; for they would by no means betray
anything like simplicity, or unfitness for their office.
So now the Emperor walked under his high canopy in
the midst of the procession, through the streets of his
capital; and all the people standing by, and those at the
windows, cried out, ‘Oh! How beautiful are our
Emperor’s new clothes! What a magnificent train there is
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
10 of 260
to the mantle; and how gracefully the scarf hangs!’ in
short, no one would allow that he could not see these
much-admired clothes; because, in doing so, he would
have declared himself either a simpleton or unfit for his
office. Certainly, none of the Emperor’s various suits, had
ever made so great an impression, as these invisible ones.
‘But the Emperor has nothing at all on!’ said a little
child.
‘Listen to the voice of innocence!’ exclaimed his father;
and what the child had said was whispered from one to
another.
‘But he has nothing at all on!’ at last cried out all the
people. The Emperor was vexed, for he knew that the
people were right; but he thought the procession must go
on now! And the lords of the bedchamber took greater
pains than ever, to appear holding up a train, although, in
reality, there was no train to hold.
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
11 of 260
THE SWINEHERD
There was once a poor Prince, who had a kingdom.
His kingdom was very small, but still quite large enough
to marry upon; and he wished to marry.
It was certainly rather cool of him to say to the
Emperor’s daughter, ‘Will you have me?’ But so he did;
for his name was renowned far and wide; and there were a
hundred princesses who would have answered, ‘Yes!’ and
‘Thank you kindly.’ We shall see what this princess said.
Listen!
It happened that where the Prince’s father lay buried,
there grew a rose tree—a most beautiful rose tree, which
blossomed only once in every five years, and even then
bore only one flower, but that was a rose! It smelt so sweet
that all cares and sorrows were forgotten by him who
inhaled its fragrance.
And furthermore, the Prince had a nightingale, who
could sing in such a manner that it seemed as though all
sweet melodies dwelt in her little throat. So the Princess
was to have the rose, and the nightingale; and they were
accordingly put into large silver caskets, and sent to her.
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
12 of 260
The Emperor had them brought into a large hall,
where the Princess was playing at ‘Visiting,’ with the ladies
of the court; and when she saw the caskets with the
presents, she clapped her hands for joy.
‘Ah, if it were but a little pussy-cat!’ said she; but the
rose tree, with its beautiful rose came to view.
‘Oh, how prettily it is made!’ said all the court ladies.
‘It is more than pretty,’ said the Emperor, ‘it is
charming!’
But the Princess touched it, and was almost ready to
cry.
‘Fie, papa!’ said she. ‘It is not made at all, it is natural!’
‘Let us see what is in the other casket, before we get
into a bad humor,’ said the Emperor. So the nightingale
came forth and sang so delightfully that at first no one
could say anything ill-humored of her.
‘Superbe! Charmant! exclaimed the ladies; for they all
used to chatter French, each one worse than her neighbor.
‘How much the bird reminds me of the musical box
that belonged to our blessed Empress,’ said an old knight.
‘Oh yes! These are the same tones, the same execution.’
‘Yes! yes!’ said the Emperor, and he wept like a child at
the remembrance.
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
13 of 260
‘I will still hope that it is not a real bird,’ said the
Princess.
‘Yes, it is a real bird,’ said those who had brought it.
‘Well then let the bird fly,’ said the Princess; and she
positively refused to see the Prince.
However, he was not to be discouraged; he daubed his
face over brown and black; pulled his cap over his ears,
and knocked at the door.
‘Good day to my lord, the Emperor!’ said he. ‘Can I
have employment at the palace?’
‘Why, yes,’ said the Emperor. ‘I want some one to take
care of the pigs, for we have a great many of them.’
So the Prince was appointed ‘Imperial Swineherd.’ He
had a dirty little room close by the pigsty; and there he sat
the whole day, and worked. By the evening he had made
a pretty little kitchen-pot. Little bells were hung all round
it; and when the pot was boiling, these bells tinkled in the
most charming manner, and played the old melody,
‘Ach! du lieber Augustin, Alles ist weg, weg, weg!’*
* ‘Ah! dear Augustine! All is gone, gone, gone!’
But what was still more curious, whoever held his
finger in the smoke of the kitchen-pot, immediately
did not perceive the Emperor. He rose on his tiptoes.
‘What is all this?’ said he, when he saw what was going
on, and he boxed the Princess’s ears with his slipper, just
as the swineherd was taking the eighty-sixth kiss.
‘March out!’ said the Emperor, for he was very angry;
and both Princess and swineherd were thrust out of the
city.
The Princess now stood and wept, the swineherd
scolded, and the rain poured down.
‘Alas! Unhappy creature that I am!’ said the Princess. ‘If
I had but married the handsome young Prince! Ah! how
unfortunate I am!’
And the swineherd went behind a tree, washed the
black and brown color from his face, threw off his dirty
clothes, and stepped forth in his princely robes; he looked
so noble that the Princess could not help bowing before
him.
‘I am come to despise thee,’ said he. ‘Thou would’st
not have an honorable Prince! Thou could’st not prize the
rose and the nightingale, but thou wast ready to kiss the

swineherd for the sake of a trumpery plaything. Thou art
rightly served.’
He then went back to his own little kingdom, and shut
the door of his palace in her face. Now she might well
sing,

There was once a Prince who wished to marry a
Princess; but then she must be a real Princess. He travelled
all over the world in hopes of finding such a lady; but
there was always something wrong. Princesses he found in
plenty; but whether they were real Princesses it was
impossible for him to decide, for now one thing, now
another, seemed to him not quite right about the ladies.
At last he returned to his palace quite cast down, because
he wished so much to have a real Princess for his wife.
One evening a fearful tempest arose, it thundered and
lightened, and the rain poured down from the sky in
torrents: besides, it was as dark as pitch. All at once there
was heard a violent knocking at the door, and the old
King, the Prince’s father, went out himself to open it.
It was a Princess who was standing outside the door.
What with the rain and the wind, she was in a sad
condition; the water trickled down from her hair, and her
clothes clung to her body. She said she was a real Princess.
‘Ah! we shall soon see that!’ thought the old Queenmother; however, she said not a word of what she was
going to do; but went quietly into the bedroom, took all
the bed-clothes off the bed, and put three little peas on the
bedstead. She then laid twenty mattresses one upon
another over the three peas, and put twenty feather beds
over the mattresses.
Upon this bed the Princess was to pass the night.
The next morning she was asked how she had slept.
‘Oh, very badly indeed!’ she replied. ‘I have scarcely
closed my eyes the whole night through. I do not know
what was in my bed, but I had something hard under me,
and am all over black and blue. It has hurt me so much!’
Now it was plain that the lady must be a real Princess,
since she had been able to feel the three little peas through
the twenty mattresses and twenty feather beds. None but a
real Princess could have had such a delicate sense of
feeling.
The Prince accordingly made her his wife; being now
convinced that he had found a real Princess. The three
peas were however put into the cabinet of curiosities,
where they are still to be seen, provided they are not lost.
Wasn’t this a lady of real delicacy?

THE SHOES OF FORTUNE
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
22 of 260
I. A Beginning
Every author has some peculiarity in his descriptions or
in his style of writing. Those who do not like him,
magnify it, shrug up their shoulders, and exclaim—there
he is again! I, for my part, know very well how I can bring
about this movement and this exclamation. It would
happen immediately if I were to begin here, as I intended
to do, with: ‘Rome has its Corso, Naples its Toledo’—
‘Ah! that Andersen; there he is again!’ they would cry; yet
I must, to please my fancy, continue quite quietly, and
add: ‘But Copenhagen has its East Street.’
Here, then, we will stay for the present. In one of the
houses not far from the new market a party was invited—a
very large party, in order, as is often the case, to get a
return invitation from the others. One half of the
company was already seated at the card-table, the other
half awaited the result of the stereotype preliminary
observation of the lady of the house:
‘Now let us see what we can do to amuse ourselves.’
They had got just so far, and the conversation began to
crystallise, as it could but do with the scanty stream which
the commonplace world supplied. Amongst other things
they spoke of the middle ages: some praised that period as
Andersen’s Fairy Tales
23 of 260
far more interesting, far more poetical than our own t